python data types module - closes #658 (#660)
bob-crutchley/courseware: topics/python/modules/data-types/README.md

# Data Types

<!--TOC_START-->
## Contents
- [Overview](#overview)
- [What is a data type?](#what-is-a-data-type)
- [Strings and line breaks](#strings-and-line-breaks)
- [Integers and Floats](#integers-and-floats)
- [Boolean](#boolean)
- [Tutorial](#tutorial)
	- [Strings](#strings)
- [Exercises](#exercises)
	- [Integers and Floats](#integers-and-floats-1)
	- [Boolean](#boolean-1)
	- [Alpabetical Animals](#alpabetical-animals)

<!--TOC_END-->
## Overview

In this module we will discuss how to work with different data types.

## What is a data type?

A data type is an attribute of data that tells us how a programmer intends to use the data.

Data types define the operations that can be done on the data, the meaning of the data, and the way values of that type can be stored.

## Strings and line breaks

> A string is a block of text - a word, sentence of paragraph.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A string is a block of text - a word, sentence or paragraph.
```

`str` is used in Python to mean `string`. 

> User inputs defaults the return value to be a string, but this can be changed. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
User inputs return a string value by default, but this can be changed. 
```

You can combine strings with `+`, this is concatenating them.
But if you wish to combine text with numbers you must use a `comma`. 
For example `print("Vegetables are good", 4, "you!")`

Strings can be written over several lines using `\n`, this is known as a line break.

> 

Author: ```suggestion

You can `concatenate` strings, which is done with a `+`. To concatenate to strings is to add them together. For example: `"dog" + "cat"` would equal `"dogcat"`.

```

## Integers and Floats

There are two main types of numbers in Python - Integers and Floating Points (Float).
A integer is a whole number and a float is a decimal number.

You can convert a number to an integer using `int`. But notice that Python does not round up.

`int(2.6) -> 2`

It is possible to reverse the process and change an integer to a float using `float`.

`float(3) -> 3.0`

## Boolean

A `boolean` (bool for short) can only store two possible values, `True` or `False`.

These are useful in logic tests such as:

> - Is somthing bigger or smaller?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Is something bigger than something else?
```

- Has something been completed?
- Used to check conditions.

## Tutorial

### Strings

Create a python file.

Set three variables to the words "Good", "Day" and your name.

```python
word1 = "Good"
word2 = "Day"
word3 = "John"
```

Then "add" them together or `concatenate` them with a space inbetween each word. 

```python

> sentence = word1 + "" + word2 + "" + word3

Author: ```suggestion
sentence = word1 + " " + word2 + " " + word3
```

```

> No print out the variable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now print out the variable.
```
